Horizontal Bypassing Authorization Schema (#467)
OWASP/wstg: document/4-Web_Application_Security_Testing/05-Authorization_Testing/02-Testing_for_Bypassing_Authorization_Schema.md

# Testing for Bypassing Authorization Schema

> |ID            |
> |--------------|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|ID          |
|------------|
```

# Testing for Bypassing Authorization Schema

|ID            |

> |--------------|

Reviewer: These two changes should be reverted.

Author: Done

This kind of test focuses on verifying how the authorization schema has been implemented for each role or privilege to get access to reserved functions and resources.

For every specific role the tester holds during the assessment and for every function and request that the application executes during the post-authentication phase, it is necessary to verify:

- Is it possible to access that resource even if the user is not authenticated?
- Is it possible to access that resource after the log-out?
- Is it possible to access functions and resources that should be accessible to a user that holds a different role or privilege?

Try to access the application as an administrative user and track all the administrative functions.

> - Is it possible to access administrative functions if the tester is logged in as a user with standard privileges?

Author: Done

- Is it possible to use these administrative functions as a user with a different role and for whom that action should be denied?

## How to Test

> In the following are the most common approaches to bypassing authorization schemes will be shown and explained. First the horizontal, and vertical bypass approaches, then some more specific scenarios.

Reviewer 2: Can we have this more towards bullet points? Maybe combined with the above points? Not something to say "We'll be doing X and Y later", we don't need that. Just, how we're going to test kinda thing

Author: I changed it to bullet points, I would like to keep it in, as for people not as familiar with the topic, they include a minimal reminder what we are going to do.

This kind of test focuses on verifying how the Horizontal authorization schema has been implemented for each role or privilege to get access rights to data and resources of other users with the same role or privilege. Such elevation or changes should be prevented by the application. For every function, specific role and request that the application executes during the post-authentication phase, it is necessary to verify:

- Is it possible to access resources that should be accessible to a user that holds a different identity with the same role or privilege?
- Is it possible to operate functions on resources that should be accessible to a user that holds a different identity?

#### How to Test

For each role:

1. Register/generate two users.
2. Generate and keep two different session tokens by authenticating (one session token for each user).
3. For every request, change the relevant parameters and the session token from token one to token two and diagnose the responses for each token.
4. An application will be considered vulnerable if the responses are the same, contain same private data or indicate successful operation on other users' resource or data.

> For example, suppose that the `viewCCpincode.jsp` function is part of every account menu of the application with the same role, and it is possible to access it by requesting the following URL: `https://www.example.com/account/viewCCpincode.jsp`. Then, the following HTTP request is generated when calling the `viewCCpincode` function:

Reviewer 2: Can we change the function names to something more recent?
`/account/cards` or `/account/details`, or something similar, without the JSP extension.

Reviewer 2: I've never seen as well pincode as such being provided, so it's a weird example to a degree too.

Author: Examples are changed.

```html
POST /account/viewCCpincode.jsp HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.com
[other HTTP headers]
Cookie: SessionID=xh6Tm2DfgRp01AZ03

Idpincode=user1
```

Valid and legitimate response:

```html
HTTP1.1 200 OK
[other HTTP headers]

{“pincode”:8432}
```

The attacker may try and execute that request with the same `Idpincode` parameter:

```html
POST /account/viewCCpincode.jsp HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.com
[other HTTP headers]
Cookie: SessionID=GbcvA1_ATTACKER_SESSION_6fhTscd

Idpincode=user1
```

If the response of the attacker’s request contains the same data `{“pincode”:8432}` the application is vulnerable. One can follow the same logic and the mentioned steps to replicate this testing approach.

> ### Testing for Vertical Bypassing Authorization Schema

Reviewer 2: Maybe mention recon in this step, as a normal user won't readily see the sections? Maybe have another PR for this, do as you see fitting. This could be an improvement to the content.

Author: Done

| Staff         | Read, Modify      | Modify                |
| Customer      | Read Only         |                       |

The application will be considered vulnerable if the:

1. Customer could operate administrator, manager or staff functions;
2. Staff user could operate manager or administrator functions;
3. Manager could operate administrator functions.

Suppose that the `deleteEvent.jsp` function is part of the administrator account menu of the application, and it is possible to access it by requesting the following URL: `https://www.example.com/account/deleteEvent.jsp`. Then, the following HTTP request is generated when calling the `deleteEvent` function:

```html
POST /account/deleteEvent.jsp HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.com
[other HTTP headers]
Cookie: SessionID=xh6Tm2DfgRp01AZ03

EventID=1000001
```

The valid response:

```html
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
[other HTTP headers]

{“message”:”Event was deleted”}
```

The attacker may try and execute the same request:

```html
POST /account/deleteEvent.jsp HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.com
[other HTTP headers]
Cookie: SessionID=GbcvA1_CUSTOMER_ATTACKER_SESSION_6fhTscd

EventID=1000002
```

> If the response of the attacker’s request contains the same data (`“message”:”Event was deleted”`) the application is vulnerable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the response of the attacker’s request contains the same data `{“message”:”Event was deleted”}` the application is vulnerable.
```

#### Example 2

Suppose that the administrator menu is part of the administrator account. The application will be considered vulnerable if any other role rather than administrator could access the administrator menu. Sometimes, developer perform authorization validation at the GUI level only, and leave the functions without authorization validation, thus potentially resulting in a vulnerability.

### Testing for Access to Administrative Functions

> For example, suppose that the 'AddUser.jsp' function is part of the administrative menu of the application, and it is possible to access it by requesting the following URL:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, suppose that the `AddUser.jsp` function is part of the administrative menu of the application, and it is possible to access it by requesting the following URL:
```

4. An application will be considered vulnerable if the responses are the same, contain the same private data, or indicate successful operations on other user resources or data.

In the [Tools](#tools) section, there are multiple add-ons for proxies such as ZAP and Burp that enables them to automatically conduct vertical authorization bypasses on a larger scale, coupling them with manual configuration and report reviewing.

#### Example 1

The following table illustrates the system roles on a banking site. Each role binds with specific permissions for the event menu functionality:

|      ROLE     |     PERMISSION    | ADDITIONAL PERMISSION |
|---------------|-------------------|-----------------------|
| Administrator | Full Control      | Delete                |
| Manager       | Modify, Add, Read | Add                   |
| Staff         | Read, Modify      | Modify                |
| Customer      | Read Only         |                       |

The application will be considered vulnerable if the:

1. Customer could operate administrator, manager or staff functions;
2. Staff user could operate manager or administrator functions;
3. Manager could operate administrator functions.

> Suppose that the `deleteEvent.jsp` function is part of the administrator account menu of the application, and it is possible to access it by requesting the following URL:
> 
> `https://www.example.com/account/deleteEvent.jsp`
> 
> Then, the following HTTP request is generated when calling the `deleteEvent` function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suppose that the `deleteEvent.jsp` function is part of the administrator account menu of the application, and it is possible to access it by requesting the following URL: `https://www.example.com/account/deleteEvent.jsp`. Then, the following HTTP request is generated when calling the `deleteEvent` function:
```

- Is it possible to use these administrative functions as a user with a different role and for whom that action should be denied?

## How to Test

In the following are the most common approaches to bypassing authorization schemes will be shown and explained. First the horizontal, and vertical bypass approaches, then some more specific scenarios.

### Testing for Horizontal Bypassing Authorization Schema

This kind of test focuses on verifying how the Horizontal authorization schema has been implemented for each role or privilege to get access rights to data and resources of other users with the same role or privilege. Such elevation or changes should be prevented by the application. For every function, specific role and request that the application executes during the post-authentication phase, it is necessary to verify:

- Is it possible to access resources that should be accessible to a user that holds a different identity with the same role or privilege?
- Is it possible to operate functions on resources that should be accessible to a user that holds a different identity?

> #### How to test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### How to Test
```

For each role:

1. Register/generate two users.
2. Generate and keep two different session tokens by authenticating (one session token for each user).
3. For every request, change the relevant parameters and the session token from token one to token two and diagnose the responses for each token.
4. An application will be considered vulnerable if the responses are the same, contain same private data or indicate successful operation on other users' resource or data.

> For example, suppose that the `viewCCpincode.jsp` function is part of every account menu of the application with the same role, and it is possible to access it by requesting the following URL:
> 
> `https://www.example.com/account/viewCCpincode.jsp`
> 
> Then, the following HTTP request is generated when calling the `viewCCpincode` function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, suppose that the `viewCCpincode.jsp` function is part of every account menu of the application with the same role, and it is possible to access it by requesting the following URL: `https://www.example.com/account/viewCCpincode.jsp`. Then, the following HTTP request is generated when calling the `viewCCpincode` function:
```

```html
HTTP1.1 200 OK
[other HTTP headers]

{“pincode”:8432}
```

The attacker may try and execute that request with the same `Idpincode` parameter:

```html
POST /account/viewCCpincode.jsp HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.com
[other HTTP headers]
Cookie: SessionID=GbcvA1_ATTACKER_SESSION_6fhTscd

Idpincode=user1
```

If the response of the attacker’s request contains the same data `{“pincode”:8432}` the application is vulnerable. One can follow the same logic and the mentioned steps to replicate this testing approach.

### Testing for Vertical Bypassing Authorization Schema

A vertical authorization bypass is specific to the case that an attacker obtains a role higher than their own. Testing for this bypass focuses on verifying how the vertical authorization schema has been implemented for each role. For every function, page, specific role, and request that the application executes during the post-authentication phase, it is necessary to verify if it is possible to:

- Access resources that should be accessible only to a higher role user.
- Operate functions on resources that should be operative only by a user that holds a higher or specific role identity.

> #### Testing scheme

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Testing Scheme
```

The process of testing for bypass authorization scheme follows:

1. For each role, register a user.
2. Generate and keep two different session tokens by authenticating (one session token for each user).
3. For every request, change the session token from the original token to another role session token and diagnose the responses for each token.
4. An application will be considered vulnerable if the responses are the same, contain the same private data, or indicate successful operations on other user resources or data.

In the [Tools](#tools) section, there are multiple add-ons for proxies such as ZAP and Burp that enables them to automatically conduct vertical authorization bypasses on a larger scale, coupling them with manual configuration and report reviewing.

#### Example 1

The following table illustrates the system roles on a banking site. Each role binds with specific permissions for the event menu functionality:

> | ROLE | PERMISSION | ADDITIONAL PERMISSION |
> |------|------------|-----------------------|
> | Administrator | Full Control     | Delete |
> | Manager       | Modify, Add, Read | Add    |
> | Staff         | Read, Modify     | Modify |
> | Customer      | Read Only        |        |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|      ROLE     |     PERMISSION    | ADDITIONAL PERMISSION |
|---------------|-------------------|-----------------------|
| Administrator | Full Control      | Delete                |
| Manager       | Modify, Add, Read | Add                   |
| Staff         | Read, Modify      | Modify                |
| Customer      | Read Only         |                       |
```

- Is it possible to access that resource after the log-out?
- Is it possible to access functions and resources that should be accessible to a user that holds a different role or privilege?

Try to access the application as an administrative user and track all the administrative functions.

- Is it possible to access administrative functions if the tester is logged in as a  non-admin user?
- Is it possible to use these administrative functions as a user with a different role and for whom that action should be denied?

## How to Test

- Access resources and conduct operations horizontally.
- Access resources and conduct operations vertically.

### Testing for Horizontal Bypassing Authorization Schema

For every function, specific role, or request that the application executes, it is necessary to verify:

- Is it possible to access resources that should be accessible to a user that holds a different identity with the same role or privilege?
- Is it possible to operate functions on resources that should be accessible to a user that holds a different identity?

For each role:

1. Register or generate two users with identical privileges.

> 2. Generate and keep two different session tokens.
> 3. For every request, change the relevant parameters and the session token from token one to token two and diagnose the responses for each token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Establish and keep two different sessions active (one for each user).
3. For every request, change the relevant parameters and the session identifier from token one to token two and diagnose the responses for each token.
```

Tokens seems kinda dated, there are other session tracking mechanisms that might be applicable.

It's fine that the example uses cookies, but if the lead-in is more generic (as suggested) then hopefully readers will be less likely to fixate.

[other HTTP headers]

{
  "username": "example_user",
  "email": "example@email.com",
  "address": "Example Address"
}
```

The attacker may try and execute that request with the same `username` parameter:

```html
POST /account/viewCCpincode HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.com
[other HTTP headers]
Cookie: SessionID=ATTACKER_SESSION

username=example_user
```

If the attacker's response contain the data of the `example_user`, then the application is vulnerable for lateral movement attacks, where a user can read or write other user's data.

### Testing for Vertical Bypassing Authorization Schema

A vertical authorization bypass is specific to the case that an attacker obtains a role higher than their own. Testing for this bypass focuses on verifying how the vertical authorization schema has been implemented for each role. For every function, page, specific role, or request that the application executes, it is necessary to verify if it is possible to:

- Access resources that should be accessible only to a higher role user.
- Operate functions on resources that should be operative only by a user that holds a higher or specific role identity.

For each role:

1. Register a user.

> 2. Generate and store two different sessions based on the two different roles.
> 3. For every request, change the session token from the original token to another role session token and diagnose the responses for each token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Establish and maintain two different sessions based on the two different roles.
3. For every request, change the session identifier from the original to another role's session identifier and evaluate the responses for each.
```

> 4. An application will be considered vulnerable if the weaker privileged token contains the same data, or indicate successful operations on higher privileged functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. An application will be considered vulnerable if the weaker privileged session contains the same data, or indicate successful operations on higher privileged functions.
```

1. Customer could operate administrator, manager or staff functions;
2. Staff user could operate manager or administrator functions;
3. Manager could operate administrator functions.

Suppose that the `deleteEvent` function is part of the administrator account menu of the application, and it is possible to access it by requesting the following URL: `https://www.example.com/account/deleteEvent`. Then, the following HTTP request is generated when calling the `deleteEvent` function:

```html
POST /account/deleteEvent HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.com
[other HTTP headers]
Cookie: SessionID=ADMINISTRATOR_USER_SESSION

EventID=1000001
```

The valid response:

```html
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
[other HTTP headers]

{"message": "Event was deleted"}
```

The attacker may try and execute the same request:

```html
POST /account/deleteEvent HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.com
[other HTTP headers]
Cookie: SessionID=CUSTOMER_USER_SESSION

EventID=1000002
```

If the response of the attacker’s request contains the same data `{"message": "Event was deleted"}` the application is vulnerable.

#### Administrator Page Access

Suppose that the administrator menu is part of the administrator account.

> The application will be considered vulnerable if any other role rather than administrator could access the administrator menu. Sometimes, developer perform authorization validation at the GUI level only, and leave the functions without authorization validation, thus potentially resulting in a vulnerability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The application will be considered vulnerable if any role other than administrator could access the administrator menu. Sometimes, developers perform authorization validation at the GUI level only, and leave the functions without authorization validation, thus potentially resulting in a vulnerability.
```

### Testing for Access to Administrative Functions

For example, suppose that the `addUser` function is part of the administrative menu of the application, and it is possible to access it by requesting the following URL:

`https://www.example.com/admin/addUser`

Then, the following HTTP request is generated when calling the `addUser` function:

```html
POST /admin/addUser HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.com
[...]

userID=fakeuser&role=3&group=grp001
```

Further questions or considerations would go in the following direction:

- What happens if a non-administrative user tries to execute that request?
- Will the user be created?
- If so, can the new user use their privileges?

### Testing for Access to Resources Assigned to a Different Role

> Various applications setup resource controls based on user roles. Let's take an example CVs uploaded on a careers form to an S3 bucket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Various applications setup resource controls based on user roles. Let's take an example resumes or CVs (curriculum vitae) uploaded on a careers form to an S3 bucket.
```

## How to Test

> In the following the most common approaches to bypassing authorization scheme will be shown and explained. First the horizontal and vertical bypassing approach and some more specific testings, like for Special Request Header Handling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following are the most common approaches to bypassing authorization schemes will be shown and explained. First the horizontal, and vertical bypass approaches, then some more specific scenarios.
```

### Testing for Horizontal Bypassing Authorization Schema

This kind of test focuses on verifying how the Horizontal authorization schema has been implemented for each role or privilege to get access rights to data and resources of other users with the same role or privilege. Such elevation or changes should be prevented by the application. For every function, specific role and request that the application executes during the post-authentication phase, it is necessary to verify:

- Is it possible to access resources that should be accessible to a user that holds a different identity with the same role or privilege?
- Is it possible to operate functions on resources that should be accessible to a user that holds a different identity?

> #### How to test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### How to Test
```

Author: Done

For each role:

> 1. Register/generate two users with the same role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Register/generate two users.
```

The lead-in states "For each role" so it's clear this refers to a single roll.

> 2. Generate and keep two different session tokens by authenticating the application (one session token for each user).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Generate and keep two different session tokens by authenticating (one session token for each user).
```

3. For every request, change the relevant parameters and the session token from token one to token two and diagnose the responses for each token.

> 4. An application will be considered vulnerable if the responses are the same, contain same private data or indicate successful operation on other users resource or data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. An application will be considered vulnerable if the responses are the same, contain same private data or indicate successful operation on other users' resource or data.
```

> For example, suppose that the 'viewCCpincode.jsp' function is part of every account menu of the application with the same role, and it is possible to access it by requesting the following URL:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, suppose that the `viewCCpincode.jsp` function is part of every account menu of the application with the same role, and it is possible to access it by requesting the following URL:
```

`https://www.example.com/account/viewCCpincode.jsp`

Then, the following HTTP request is generated when calling the `viewCCpincode` function:

```html
POST /account/viewCCpincode.jsp HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.com
[other HTTP headers]
Cookie: SessionID=xh6Tm2DfgRp01AZ03

Idpincode=user1
```

Valid and legitimate response:

```html
HTTP1.1 200 OK
[other HTTP headers]

{“pincode”:8432}
```

The attacker may try and execute that request with the same `Idpincode` parameter:

```html
POST /account/viewCCpincode.jsp HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.com
[other HTTP headers]
Cookie: SessionID=GbcvA1_ATTACKER_SESSION_6fhTscd

Idpincode=user1
```

> If the response of the attacker’s request contains the same data (“pincode”:8432) the application is vulnerable. One can follow the same logic and the mentioned steps to replicate this testing approach.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the response of the attacker’s request contains the same data `(“pincode”:8432`) the application is vulnerable. One can follow the same logic and the mentioned steps to replicate this testing approach.
```

- Access resources that should be accessible only to a higher role user.
- Operate functions on resources that should be operative only by a user that holds a higher or specific role identity.

#### How to Test

The process of testing for bypass authorization scheme follows:

1. For each role, register a user.
2. Generate and keep the session tokens by authenticating to the application (one session token for each role).
3. For every request, change the session token from the original token to another role session token and diagnose the responses for each token.
4. An application will be considered vulnerable if the responses are the same, contain the same private data, or indicate successful operations on other user resources or data.

In the [Tools](#tools) section, there are multiple add-ons for proxies such as ZAP and Burp that enables them to automatically conduct vertical authorization bypasses on a larger scale, coupling them with manual configuration and report reviewing.

#### Example 1

> The following table illustrates the system role on banking site. Each role bind with specific permissions for the event menu functionality:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table illustrates the system role on banking site. Each role binds with specific permissions for the event menu functionality:
```

`https://www.example.com/account/deleteEvent.jsp`

Then, the following HTTP request is generated when calling the `deleteEvent` function:

```html
POST /account/deleteEvent.jsp HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.com
[other HTTP headers]
Cookie: SessionID=xh6Tm2DfgRp01AZ03

EventID=1000001
```

The valid response:

```html
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
[other HTTP headers]

{“message”:”Event was deleted”}
```

The attacker may try and execute the same request:

```html
POST /account/deleteEvent.jsp HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.com
[other HTTP headers]
Cookie: SessionID=GbcvA1_CUSTOMER_ATTACKER_SESSION_6fhTscd

EventID=1000002
```

If the response of the attacker’s request contains the same data (`“message”:”Event was deleted”`) the application is vulnerable.

#### Example 2

Suppose that the administrator menu is part of the administrator account. The application will be considered vulnerable if any other role rather than administrator could access the administrator menu. Sometimes, developer perform authorization validation at the GUI level only, and leave the functions without authorization validation, thus potentially resulting in a vulnerability.

### Testing for Access to Administrative Functions

> For example, suppose that the 'AddUser.jsp' function is part of the administrative menu of the application, and it is possible to access it by requesting the following URL:

Reviewer: This should be restored to proper code fencing.

userID=fakeuser&role=3&group=grp001
```

> Further questions would be going into the following direction:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Further questions or considerations would go in the following direction:
```

- What happens if a non-administrative user tries to execute that request?
- Will the user be created?
- If so, can the new user use their privileges?

### Testing for Access to Resources Assigned to a Different Role

> For example analyze an application that uses a shared directory to store temporary PDF files for different users. Suppose that documentABC.pdf should be accessible only by the user test1 with roleA. Verify if user test2 with roleB can access that resource.

Reviewer: This should be restored to proper code fencing.

Author: I used single back ticks again for the proper code fencing. If there is a different way, please let me know. I oriented myself on this https://community.openhab.org/t/how-to-use-code-fences/38383.

### Testing for Special Request Header Handling

> Some applications support non-standard headers such as X-Original-URL or X-Rewrite-URL in order to allow overriding the target URL in requests with the one specified in the header value.

Reviewer: This should be restored to proper code fencing.

This behavior can be leveraged in a situation in which the application is behind a component that applies access control restriction based on the request URL.

The kind of access control restriction based on the request URL can be, for example, blocking access from Internet to an administration console exposed on `/console` or `/admin`.

> To detect the support for the header X-Original-URL or X-Rewrite-URL, the following steps can be applied.

Reviewer: This should be restored to proper code fencing.

If the response for either request contains markers that the resource was not found, this indicates that the application supports the special request headers. These markers may include the HTTP response status code 404, or a "resource not found" message in the response body.

> Once the support for the header X-Original-URL or X-Rewrite-URL was validated then the tentative of bypass against the access control restriction can be leveraged by sending the expected request to the application but specifying a URL "allowed" by the front-end component as the main request URL and specifying the real target URL in the X-Original-URL or X-Rewrite-URL header depending on the one supported. If both are supported then try one after the other to verify for which header the bypass is effective.

Reviewer: This should be restored to proper code fencing.

## References

> [OWASP Application Security Verification Standard 3.0.1](https://github.com/OWASP/ASVS/tree/master/3.0.1), V4.1, 4.4, 4.9, 4.16.

Reviewer: Is there a reason to use 3.0.1 and not v4?

Author: Updated it to v4 and changed the link

Note: Including a port element along with the address or hostname may also help bypass edge protections such as web application firewalls, etc.
For example: `127.0.0.4:80`, `127.0.0.4:443`, `127.0.0.4:43982`

## Remediation

Employ the least privilege principles on the users, roles, and resources to ensure that no unauthorized access occurs.

## Tools

> - [OWASP Zed Attack Proxy (ZAP)](https://www.zaproxy.org/)
> - [ZAP extension: Access Control Testing](https://www.zaproxy.org/docs/desktop/addons/access-control-testing/)
> - [Burp extension: AuthMatrix](https://github.com/SecurityInnovation/AuthMatrix/)
> - [Burp extension: Autorize](https://github.com/Quitten/Autorize)
> - [Port Swigger Burp Suite](https://portswigger.net/burp)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [OWASP Zed Attack Proxy (ZAP)](https://www.zaproxy.org/)
  - [ZAP add-on: Access Control Testing](https://www.zaproxy.org/docs/desktop/addons/access-control-testing/)
- [Port Swigger Burp Suite](https://portswigger.net/burp)
  - [Burp extension: AuthMatrix](https://github.com/SecurityInnovation/AuthMatrix/)
  - [Burp extension: Autorize](https://github.com/Quitten/Autorize)
```

## Tools

- [OWASP Zed Attack Proxy (ZAP)](https://www.zaproxy.org/)
- [ZAP extension: Access Control Testing](https://www.zaproxy.org/docs/desktop/addons/access-control-testing/)
- [Burp extension: AuthMatrix](https://github.com/SecurityInnovation/AuthMatrix/)
- [Burp extension: Autorize](https://github.com/Quitten/Autorize)

> - [Port Swigger Burp Suite](<https://portswigger.net/burp>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Port Swigger Burp Suite](https://portswigger.net/burp)
```

## References

> [OWASP Application Security Verification Standard 3.0.1](https://github.com/OWASP/ASVS/tree/master/4.0), V4.1, 4.4, 4.9, 4.16.

Reviewer: The text says "3.0.1" but then links 4.0? Also they've recently published a [reference standard](https://github.com/OWASP/ASVS/#how-to-reference-asvs-requirements) which should be used here.

## Tools

- [OWASP Zed Attack Proxy (ZAP)](https://www.zaproxy.org/)
- [ZAP extension: Access Control Testing](https://www.zaproxy.org/docs/desktop/addons/access-control-testing/)
- [Burp extension: AuthMatrix](https://github.com/SecurityInnovation/AuthMatrix/)
- [Burp extension: Autorize](https://github.com/Quitten/Autorize)
- [Port Swigger Burp Suite](<https://portswigger.net/burp>

> 

Reviewer: Seems like something is up with your merge/rebase
